in white western english-speaking
cultures I really do think women get
this kind of treatment worse than men
and it's harder for them to deal with it
it's harder for them to deal with it
either confrontationally or not
confrontationally you know the kind of
needling treatment women get the kind of
openly contemptuous and dismissive
treatment women get and the assumption
that you can just keep insulting someone
to their face and they're not gonna
stand up and walk out of the room or
stand up and turn over the table this is
not about respect my authority this
isn't a very real sense about respect my
my subjectivity and badness yen hey guys
it's been a couple years since I said
this on the channel but I used to say
all the time then we talked about the
cultural clash surrounding egoism I
really think that in modern white
Western society women have a much harder
time of it than men and this example I'm
gonna read you email sent to me by a
patreon supporter illustrates this fact
by the way you can click on the link
below this video pay one dollar a month
so that this channel can exist via
patreon and I'm not gonna digress into
extolling the relative virtues of doing
this but hey is what it is so I got an
email from Samantha Samantha writes to
me hey eyes oh I would really appreciate
if you would take a small amount of time
to read this check I recently went out
for my birthday at a Thai restaurant so
I emphasize this is her birthday dinner
it's not someone else's birthday dinner
at a Thai restaurant with my family
I ordered a simple dish of fried tofu
with rice however it came along with egg
drop soup so the point is here it was
bundled with for free she got a soup
that has egg in it which she didn't know
she didn't realize it wasn't explained
in the menu or what have you so she says
she was unaware of this when she ordered
it but this free soup came with her with
her order I offered it to my brother and
my stepmom made a comment on how quote I
don't understand chickens do not die to
produce eggs close quote I'm very shy
and I just got kind of anxious about
this I didn't want to come across as
judgmental or irrational but I also
wanted to tell her why this wasn't the
case this led me into an anxiety attack
and she followed me outside so I could
relax
aware that this was not very rational
looking back on this i'm several things
about this are irrational including her
following you it's probably a great time
for it'll leave you alone
especially what happens and if the rest
of this story I told her how chickens
are killed for the production of eggs I
emailed chicks being ground alive and I
really just don't think she comprehended
it she kept replying with stuff like
quote I've had chickens before close
quote and quote eggs aren't fertilized
they aren't mashed up body parts of baby
chicks close close I don't know if I
wasn't clear about it or if she just
truly didn't get what I was saying she
sort of laughed saying quote one person
can't make a difference close quote and
she got defensive saying quote I'm not
going to give up eggs if that's what you
want
close quote that sentence really got to
me ISIL
what if Rosa Parks got this kind of
attitude and then just complied sitting
in the back of the bus what if Martin
Luther King gave up on the basic idea of
ending racial segregation because of
this kind of flack I'm just so tired of
trying to shrug off my quote unquote
lifestyle as no big deal in these kinds
of you know context so look I'll
continue reading this message but it's
point out in white western
english-speaking cultures I really do
think women get this kind of treatment
worse than men and it's harder for them
to deal with it it's harder for them to
deal with it either confrontationally or
not confrontational II so I'll give you
an example I don't know how old this
person is writing in let's assume she's
younger than I am because I'm
approximately a hundred years old um you
can imagine for me as a young man or for
me as the old man now it's real easy if
someone says something like this whether
it's about eggs are about about Dairy
Milk if someone says that chickens
aren't aren't killed to produce eggs I
can sit there and cross my arms or stare
across the table other pleasent say oh
yeah so they live forever do they so the
chickens go on to a retirement home
after they're done laying eggs what what
do you imagine happens to the chickens
who spend their whole life
inside an aluminum box eating food out
of a trough and laying an egg into a
slot how does their life end how does it
light how does the life and really know
I mean you can imagine there's just a
level of I'm sorry I mean it's in a
perfect world you know men and women
would be would be treated equally and
you can even say just in the company of
perfect friends you know sir I've had a
lot of female friends that I treated
exactly the same as men and some of them
put up with and some of them don't I'm
gonna be honest with you I think that's
also why so many of my female friends
have either been bisexual or lesbian
because I do I do have female friends I
treat them exactly the same with men and
not everybody likes that kind of
treatment in Western culture either but
you know the kind of needling treatment
women get the kind of openly
contemptuous and dismissive treatment
women get and the assumption that you
can just keep insulting someone to their
face and they're not gonna stand up and
walk out of the room or stand up and
turn over the table or straight up
resort to a fistfight you know they're
really it's weird because like I mean
obviously look I'm gonna keep real with
you I'm a nihilist I see peace as the
shadow of war and I see most good
behavior and refined manners in Western
countries is very much being in the
shadow of the threat of violence or at
least inconvenience you know what I mean
like it may not really be the threat of
violence maybe just the threat of this
meal is over I'm walking out you know
dinner is ruined this birthday but there
are consequences for misbehaving and
again back when I was 16 18 or something
I could get that kind of reaction to be
where it was very clear to people
without my having demand it either you
take me seriously or there are gonna be
consequences the consequence may be I
walk out you never you never hear from
me again you know this is not about
respect my authority this isn't a very
real sense about respect my my
subjectivity and it is in this sense in
which vegans often find a lot easier to
talk about veganism as a religion I've
said in a recent video of recent vegan
Mind Tricks video I was talking about
dealing with parents who asked you to be
reasonable and quote/unquote compromise
and just eat a few of
meals that are made out of meat a few
times a year at family gatherings at big
holidays and I suggested there you can
challenge people by comparing true okay
so are you going to be Muslim for a few
days a year if I get married to a Muslim
and I convert to Islam are you willing
to change your religion just just three
or four times a year just for major I'll
just for my convenience just to get
along or are you willing to convert to
Hinduism this kind of question this kind
of parallelism you know in a sense it's
really inadequate because the vast
majority of people are members of
religion just by accident of birth right
they just happen to be born into a
Muslim family and we're people who
really chose this were people who are
really passionate but it really care
about it these are ethical principles
that to some extent we've we've invented
for ourselves and to some extent we've
at least selected for ourselves so it's
actually much more powerful than most
forms of religious identity but you've
got a fight to get it taken seriously
and as you say here you've already put
it in this perspective
well Rosa Parks Martin Luther King jr.
you know as I've said in many other
videos also has anyone suffered less but
nevertheless the struggle is real the
suffering is very real and women it's
partly for this reason as I say the kind
of the shadow of the the possibility of
a fistfight breaking out or just
standing up or just men saying look I'm
drawing the line you can't talk to me
this way if you do there are
consequences and the consequence may
just be I walk out of this restaurant
now and leave you to eat your egg your
egg drop soup or whatever it is but um
you know it's also this Western idea of
the woman as the caregiver and the cook
and the participant in the kitchen where
women are put upon words like oh well
you know what's Thanksgiving why don't
you get in the kitchen with your auntie
and your grandma and participate in
basting this turkey and it's like well
are you're asking me to participate in
something I regard us as a you know a
crying me you're asking me to
participate in something our regard is
immoral and that's a tension which again
I think women are put in that position
much much more often than men and with a
real sense of scoffing not just scoffing
indifference but contempt if women try
to draw hard a hard moral line so I mean
it's tough I mean women in Western
culture are presumed
be the guardians of morality there
presumed to impart morality to the next
generation and raising children but on
the other hand it is you know the role
of the preacher is presumed to be male
in the role of the lawyer and the role
of the the you know the Statesman a lot
of these have gendered concepts you know
built into them the idea of standing up
for justice or your sense of what's
right or what have you
these do have a really gendered element
to them in Western culture and sure I
can absolutely say it's different in Sri
Lanka I can say it's different in Taiwan
I can say it's different in other
cultures in some ways better and in some
ways worse but in white Western
english-speaking countries there's no
doubt women have it a lot worse than men
in exactly these most intimate and awful
of situations dealing with your
stepmother and your brother and this
stuff around dinner table oh right I I
continue I'm just so tired of trying to
shrug off my so-called lifestyle as no
big deal even avoiding mentioning it to
others well the small efforts vegans do
make a difference am I crazy getting
upset over a small bowl of soup all
right stop you're not upset over the
bowl of soup you're upset over what your
stepmother is doing you right and it's
really good if you could articulate that
at the time the problem isn't the bowl
of soup the problem is you mom that's
that's what you got to get a car you can
sit in exactly those words the problem
is you disrespecting me the problem is
I'm drawing a line in chalk and you're
crossing it and you're laughing at me
and you're sneering at me the problem
isn't the bowl of soup every day I walk
past a thousand eggs at the grocery
store you just literally walk past the
display of eggs and milk to go and pick
out my tofu or whatever it is I'm buying
at the grocery store I got a deal with
it every day every day I may drive my
car past hundreds of pigs and cows going
to slaughterhouses you know you see them
in these trucks way to the
slaughterhouse right that's an everyday
thing for me so for me to have to sit at
this
table with a little bowl of soup isn't
it that's not the problem the problem is
I got a look in your eyes and deal with
your disrespect and your phony-ass
incomprehension you know of what this is
and when you know the particular person
you can give examples you can say like
look you know my cousin Rory you
remember he got really crazy about
mountain climbing and he got you know he
spent all this money to fly to India and
climb a mountain and come back he was
you know going and learning how to do
rock climbing and then flying rather
well you remember that you remember how
tolerant and patient you were for
figuring what that was and why that was
no positive and appreciative and
supportive your was that doesn't it seem
to you like that's complete [ __ ]
compared to what this is we're talking
about here and how much it means to me
now getting you may not have a cousin
Rory who did mountain climbing you may
have a cousin named Michael who became a
compulsive gambler you know you may have
your your brother Tom who became a video
game addict
you may have a you know a sister who you
know converted to Zen Buddhism or
something but you probably have some
examples in the family what it's like
look you took the time to understand
appreciate and play some kind of
positive role for this member of the
family when they did some that really
mattered to them that you had no
comprehension of and you're not making
that little bit of effort here to find
out what this means to me
you know obviously you are not gonna
give up eating eggs and that's cuz
you're a piece of [ __ ] there's the other
fighting [ __ ] tension here is that's
what you're not saying right what is
being said is that you as the vegan are
being disrespected here because you care
you know it's that schoolyard thing it's
really schoolyard
you know nonsense where you know what
school is not caring and then the kid
who actually cares about something is
ridiculed because they care oh gee you
care about the consequences of your
actions you care about the fact that
chickens are being harmed and ground up
to produce food that is unnecessary and
healthy you care and therefore you're
the butt of the joke and when you're
sitting down with friends or relatives
that's wrong and it's not wrong it
found sense it's wrong in a shallow
schoolyard sense and if you want to be
respected by your own stepmom your own
brother your own cousins you've got a
goddamn fight and and definitely in in
modern Western culture
I think women have the the hardest fight
of all
[Music]
evolution